---
title: "What is the internet?"
duration: 1:30
---

# What is the internet?

## Learning Objectives

* Define the internet
* Explain the difference between the internet and the web
* Identify the key components of the internet

## Introduction

The internet is a global network of computers that connects people and devices all over the world. It's a network of networks, and it's made up of millions of smaller networks, called LANs (local area networks) and WANs (wide area networks). The internet is a collection of these networks, and it's what allows you to connect to the web.


## What is the difference between the internet and the web?

The internet is a network of networks, and the web is a collection of websites. The internet is a network of computers that connects people and devices all over the world.

## Key components of the internet

The internet is made up of a few key components:

* **Servers** - Servers are computers that store information and make it available to other computers on the internet. They are usually connected to the internet 24/7, and they are usually located in data centers.

* **Clients** - Clients are computers that request information from servers. They are usually connected to the internet for a short period of time, and they are usually located in homes or offices.

* **Protocols** - Protocols in the language of networking, protocols can be defined as a set of rules that guide data transmission between computing devices. These rules make sure that the data request is sent and received by the client without any problem. The most important internet protocols are – Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and Internet Protocol (IP). TCP is responsible for the delivery of data packets from the source to the destination. IP is responsible for the addressing of the data packets.